1.Characteristics of Big Data:
There  are 5 characteristics of big data:
a.Volume:
Big data implies volumes of data. It used to be employees created data. It is 
generated by machines,networks and human interaction on systems like social media 
the volume of data to be analyzed is massive.
b.Variety:
Variety refers to the many sources and types of data both structured and unstructed.
We used to store date from sources like spreadsheets and databases.Data comes in the 
form of emails,audios,photos,etc.
c.Veracity:
Veracity refers to the biases,noise and abnormality in data. Data that is being stored and 
mined meaningful to the problem being analyzed. Data analysis is the biggest challenge when 
compares to things like volume and velocity.
d.Velocity:
Velocity deals with the pace at which flows in and from the sources likje business processes,
machines,networks and human interaction with things like social media sites,mobile devices,etc.
the flow of data is massive and continous.
e.Value:
The most important element of the big data is value. Value includes a large volume and variety of
data that is easy to access and delivers quality analytics that enables informed decisions.

2.Possible solution to handle big data:
The solutions for big data are:
a. Scale Up:
Scale Up is taking what we have got and replacing  it with something more powerful. It is viable 
scaling solution until it is impossible to scale up individual components any larger.
Scale Out:
Scale Out takes the infrastructure that we have got and replicates it to work in parallel. This has
the effect of increasing infrastructure capacity roughly linearly.Build a compute pod,spin up 
applications to use it and then scale out by building another pod to add capacity.

3.Differences between scaling up and scaling down:
a. Scale Up:
Scale Up is taking what we have got and replacing  it with something more powerful. It is viable 
scaling solution until it is impossible to scale up individual components any larger.
Scale Out:
Scale Out takes the infrastructure that we have got and replicates it to work in parallel. This has
the effect of increasing infrastructure capacity roughly linearly.Build a compute pod,spin up 
applications to use it and then scale out by building another pod to add capacity.
